# LQ_collider_project
Codes and data for the LQ collider research project, which corresponds to the paper: "----" by myself (João Pedro Pino Gonçalves) and collaborators (Werner Porod, António Morais, António Onofre and Roman Pasechnik). arXiv:0000.00000 

**LQ_UFO_py2** Contains the ```UFO``` files, as well as an example parameter card (```restrict_default.dat```) to run Monte Carlo simulations in MadGraph. ```python2``` version

**LQ_UFO_py3** Contains the ```UFO``` files, as well as an example parameter card (```restrict_default.dat```) to run Monte Carlo simulations in MadGraph. ```python3``` version

**SARAH** Contains the ```SARAH``` implementation of the model. Can be used for some analytical calculations as well as to generate files for other opensource HEP codes

**MadGraph_codes** Auxiliary ```python``` code for contructing MadGraph parameter cards as well as a ```python``` interface with MadGraph to generate events for the LQ model. I have also included a similar interface but written in ```bash```, which I used for the backgrounds. Also includes analysis codes for extraction of kinematic/angular observables from ```.root``` files generated by ```Delphes```. 

Note: For the card generation, data from https://github.com/Mrazi09/Leptoquark-project---Data is used. In particular the data from the Data_v3 folder.

**Data_MadGraph** Some numerical data used for the simulations and plots

**Plots** Folder with various plots, as well as the associated python script (as well as a ```jupyter``` notebook) to draw them

**EVO** Folder with main scripts to run the genetic algorithm. One can opt between accuracy (loss function set to binary cross-entropy) or asimov mode (loss function is defined as the inverse of the Asimov estimate). To jump between the different modes, one must alter the flags inside ```train_signal2.py```. A notebook named ```process_imbalanced.ipynb``` which picks up the ```.csv``` datasets and balances the classes and then saves it in the ```.npz``` format, which is used in the python scripts. **TO ADD**. Notebook that uses the networks to compute the significance.

**Benchmark_cards** Folder with the benchmark cards for different masses of the lightest leptoquark.

**Gaussian_fits** Guassian fits to the log probability histograms to every observable studied in this work. Also includes a ```jupyter``` notebook that performs the computations named ```Pvalue_root.ipynb```. Requires .csv with the histograms, which is inside this repository in the Data_MadGraph folder 

**Gaussian_fits** Guassian fits to the log probability histograms for observables that offer a separation greater than $5\sigma$


To download, click on ```<> Code``` on top of the page and select ```Download ZIP```. One can also use git to clone the repo to your local machine as ```git clone https://github.com/Mrazi09/LQ_collider_project.git``` in the terminal.

For additional information or questions, feel free to contact me by email (jpedropino@ua.pt or johnppg5@gmail.com)
